Two fitness instructors were stunned and horrified to get a piece of hate mail that they said made them feel bullied about their bodies.

Taryn Sisco and her business partner Megan Ellis received the letter after they were featured in the local paper last week for the grand opening for their new Barre East Fitness Studio in Frederick, Maryland. The sender cut out the article and wrote insulting messages over both women's bodies, complete with arrows, saying "you are fat" among other things.

"Everyone is becoming used to little digs on social media, you do it in 140 characters or less," Sisco told ABC News. "To have it written across our actual bodies...It just felt more personal."

After getting the letter Monday, Sisco penned a note about the experience on the blog of the website about the experience.

"It wasn’t about our business or our training, she was picking apart our bodies and the way we look," Sisco wrote of the letter she received.

2nd Colorado Plague Death Reported This Summer
Legionnaire's Disease Reported in South Bronx Area of NYC
"I'd really love for her to talk to the women in our classes who come to our studio because they feel comfortable in a judgement free zone," Sisco wrote. " I guess writing the words "you are fat", "you are overweight" and "borderline obese" on a picture of two women doesn't bother her. I wonder if she has a daughter or better yet, granddaughters?"

Sisco said neither she nor her partner knew the woman and believe she had not come to any of their classes.

"I'd really love for her to talk to the women in our classes who come to our studio because they feel comfortable in a judgement free zone," Sisco wrote.

After going public with their story, Sisco said the studio has received an outpouring of support from both clients and other members of the public.

"If it can happen to us and it can happen to everyone," said Sisco.

On Facebook Sisco said she was especially concerned since she had suffered from an eating disorder when she was younger and had spent time in treatment.

"I got that pit in my stomach [after reading the letter] I was able to say 'No I’m not fat,'" said Sisco. "I have two kids I love my body, my body carried those children. I’m totally cool with how I am."

Sisco said the letter inspired the studio to put up an inspiration wall to help cheer new clients and they are seeing new clients thanks to the post about the hate mail. She said their goal is to be a welcoming place for people of all athletic ability.

"The best thing for us is [when clients] tell friends that 'Hey come check this out because I feel comfortable there,'" said Sisco.